JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
MICK MULVANEY, White House
Budget Director:
We're trying to drive the
economic benefit
here to the taxpayers in the
middle.
JUDY WOODRUFF: White House
Budget Director
Mick Mulvaney joins me to
explain the administration's
tax reform proposal and
President Trump's
plan to get a spending bill
passed.
Also ahead, a look at the first
100 days of
the Trump presidency, the
progress and setbacks
on the domestic front for the
new administration.
Then: a wall keeping people and
wildlife out
-- how a political divide could
endanger animals
living along the U.S.-Mexico
border.
SERGIO AVILA-VILLEGAS,
Arizona-Sonora Desert
Museum: Long-term, this could be
a division
of genetical populations, where
a group of
animals from one side cannot
reproduce with
another group of animals,
breaking the connectivity,
creating some genetical
problems.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Trump
administration is
out with the broad strokes of
what it says
would be the largest tax reform
in U.S. history.
The plan's main features,
released today,
include cutting corporate tax
rates to 15
percent from 35 percent.
It would also consolidate
existing income
tax brackets into just three,
ranging from
10 percent to 35 percent.
And it would double the standard
deduction,
while repealing the estate tax.
At a White House briefing,
Treasury Secretary
Steven Mnuchin promised the plan
will not
make the deficit worse.
STEVEN MNUCHIN, U.S. Treasury
Secretary: This
will pay for itself with growth
and with reduced
reduction of different
deductions, and closing
loopholes.
We will be working very closely,
as I said,
with the House and Senate to
turn this into
a bill that can be passed and
the president
can sign, and there's lots and
lots of details
going into how that will pay for
itself.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Republican
leaders said the
plan offers critical guideposts
for a tax
overhaul, but Democrats called
it a massive
tax break for the wealthy.
On another issue, Secretary
Mnuchin said today
that President Trump -- quote --
"has no intention"
of making his own tax returns
public.
Congress moved closer today to
trying to prevent
a government shutdown on
Saturday.
Democrats said one stumbling
block apparently
fell away when the White House
agreed to continue
subsidies for millions of poor
people under
Obamacare.
Meanwhile, conservative House
Republicans
announced that they will back a
newly revised
plan to repeal and replace
Obamacare.
It is not yet clear if moderates
will go along.
There is word that President
Trump has settled
on a course of action against
North Korea.
A top national security official
says it begins
with diplomacy, but includes a
range of options.
That word came as all 100
senators took a
bus caravan to the White House
for a classified
briefing.
Democrat Chris Coons of Delaware
was among
those who spoke afterwards.
SEN.
CHRIS COONS (D), Delaware: I was
encouraged
that they chose to brief the
entire Senate.
And I think the -- it was a
sobering briefing,
in which it was clear just how
much thought
and planning is going into
preparing military
options, if called for, and a
diplomatic strategy
that strikes me as clear-eyed
and well -- well-proportioned
to the threat.
JUDY WOODRUFF: House members had
their briefing
later at the Capitol.
And North Korea issued a new
warning that
it will -- quote -- "go to the
end," apparently
meaning a nuclear strike, if
there is an all-out
war with the U.S.
China today unveiled its first
domestically
built aircraft carrier, the
latest step in
a major naval expansion.
The vessel slowly slipped into
the water in
the port city of Dalian to much
fanfare.
It is expected to become
operational by 2020,
after undergoing sea trials.
President Trump today decried a
new legal
blow to his immigration policy.
On Tuesday, a federal district
judge in San
Francisco blocked his order to
withhold funding
from so-called sanctuary cities,
which seek
to protect many of those who are
undocumented.
The president tweeted that the
decision was
-- quote -- "ridiculous" and he
vowed to appeal.
He lumped that in with criticism
of the 9th
Judicial Circuit, where
appellate courts also
blocked his travel ban.
Later, he echoed that complaint:
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
I'm never surprised by the 9th
Circuit.
(LAUGHTER)
DONALD TRUMP: As I said, we will
see them
in the Supreme Court.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mr. Trump also
told The Washington
Examiner newspaper that he has
considered
proposals to split up the 9th
Circuit.
Meanwhile, the Department of
Homeland Security
formally opened a new office to
help victims
of crimes by undocumented
immigrants.
Secretary John Kelly said that
it will help
shine a light on victims as part
of the president's
push on illegal immigration.
Multiple studies show that
native-born Americans
are more likely to commit crimes
than are
immigrants.
The Trump administration is
going to review
so-called national monument
designations for
millions of acres of federal
land.
They go back to President
Clinton's time in
office.
Mr. Trump ordered the review at
the U.S. Interior
Department today.
It is aimed at what he called a
-- quote -- "massive
federal land grab" that bars
drilling, mining
and other uses.
Environmental and Native
American tribal groups
denounced the action.
And Wall Street gave a little
ground today.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 21 points
to close at 20975.
The Nasdaq fell a quarter of a
point, and
the S&P 500 slipped one point.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
I sit down
with White House Budget Director
Mick Mulvaney
to talk about the president's
budget and tax
priorities; approaching
President Trump's
first 100 days in office, a look
at what he
has accomplished here at home;
and much more.
first 100 days in office, a look
at what he
has accomplished here at home;
and much more.
On this day when the White House
is unveiling
the outline of a tax system
overhaul, and
negotiating down to the wire
over a federal
spending plan to fund the
government through
September, I sat down with Mick
Mulvaney,
the head of the Office of
Management and Budget.
I spoke with him at his office
this afternoon,
before there were reports of a
deal on health
care subsidies.
Director Mick Mulvaney, thank
you very much
for talking with us.
MICK MULVANEY, White House
Budget Director:
Judy, thank you for having me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I do want to
start by asking
you about taxes.
That's the big announcement
coming from the
administration today.
MICK MULVANEY: Sure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The proposal,
among other things,
calls for increases in the
standard deductions,
individuals and families.
MICK MULVANEY: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Big cuts in
corporate business
taxes.
What is the administration
trying to accomplish
with this proposal?
MICK MULVANEY: Getting economic
growth back
where it's supposed to be.
I think what we have forgotten
for the last
decade is that America used to
be a fast-growing
economy.
If you look over the course of
our 200-plus
years, we're supposed to grow at
about 3 percent,
on average, and that's where we
have been
since World War II, at the very
least, even
further back than that.
But, for the last decade, we
have been growing
at less than 2 percent.
That doesn't sound like much,
but if you think
about it in terms of the power
of compound
interest, when you take an
economy our size
that only grows 2 percent a year
for a decade,
instead of 3 percent a year, the
difference
between those things are
tremendous.
Folks who are 30 years old have
never had
a job during a time when the
economy was growing
at 3 percent.
And it's entirely different.
When I was a young person, if
you got fired,
you could find another job.
If you wanted to quit, you could
go start
your own company.
We haven't had that for 10 years
now.
And we're trying to get back to
that.
And that is what is driving not
only everything
we do at the White House, but
specifically
this tax plan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A number of the
analysts who
have looked at say, when you put
together
the proposed business tax cuts,
some of the
individual cuts, and when you
look at the
proposal to do away with some of
the taxes
that are now in the Affordable
Care Act, in
essence, it's the top 1 percent
of Americans,
1 percent of American,
high-income level,
who are going to benefit the
most from this.
How do you answer that?
MICK MULVANEY: I'm not sure how
could they
could come to that conclusion.
I would be curious to know what
assumptions
they're making regarding the
value of deductions.
For example, we get rid of all
the deductions
on the personal side, except, I
think, let's
see, charity and some of the
home interest
deduction.
So, I'm not sure how you could
make that conclusion,
unless you're making some wild
assumptions
about the nature of those
deductions.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Where do you see
the benefits
falling, what income?
MICK MULVANEY: Middle class.
Middle class and business, writ
large, both
large business and small
business.
In fact, it should be one of the
largest reductions
on small business, what we call
S Corporations,
in the history of S
Corporations.
So, we're trying to drive the
economic benefit
here to the taxpayers in the
middle, the folks
who are in the middle class, who
are paying
the taxes, and the places where
they work.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We know the tax
cuts for these
so-called pass-through
businesses, owner-owned
businesses, are going to be
among the beneficiaries.
We know President Trump, it's
the kind of
business he has.
How much does he stand to
benefit?
And I ask people of because
people are saying,
we don't know what his tax
income situation
is.
He has said he's not going to
release that.
How does the public know that he
doesn't stand
to benefit significantly?
MICK MULVANEY: Well, I actually
don't care
about whether or not someone
else benefits.
I care about whether I benefit,
I being just
anybody.
Right?
As long as I'm better off, why
should I care
if somebody is as well?
What I look at through is the
lens of the
business I used to run.
I owned a restaurant.
It was a fast, fresh Mexican
restaurant.
In fact, I rolled burritos the
day that I
announced I was running for
Congress.
And this would be a huge benefit
to us, to
the point where S Corporations
right now pay
tax at the pass-through rate,
which is typically
the highest individual rate of
the owners
of the business.
You take that number to 15
percent, it allows
me to keep a lot more money in
my business.
And what I would have done, had
I still been
in that line of work, is start
preparing to
open another restaurant.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I also want to
ask you about
the revenue loss that comes from
all these
tax cuts.
The administration at one point
was talking
about a border tax, some kind of
adjustable
tax at the border.
That doesn't appear to be part
of the proposal
right now.
How do you address significant
drop in revenue,
at a time when the country is --
has deficits
that are historic?
MICK MULVANEY: Sure.
And we can talk about deficits
more.
And I want to.
But let's talk about -- you
asked a couple
different things, which is the
border tax.
Keep in mind that this is the
first round
of discussions.
It's not a pre-cooked bill.
It's not prepackaged.
This is sort of our principles,
so just because
it's not in this first round of
principles
doesn't mean it won't be in a
final version
of the bill.
The president is interested in
trying to figure
out a way to tax imports,
especially from
countries that tax our exports.
Regarding the revenue loss, keep
in mind that
the corporate income tax only
generates, I
think, about only $300 billion a
year.
So, you can do a fairly good bit
within the
corporate tax, and not cost a
lot of revenue.
And, finally -- and you have
heard Secretary
Mnuchin talk about this today --
we're hoping
for really, really good growth
from these
numbers, from this tax reform.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, as you know,
when big
tax cuts instituted during the
presidency
of Ronald Reagan, that growth
didn't materialize.
They ended up having to raise
taxes again
by the end of his
administration.
MICK MULVANEY: Actually, that's
not true.
We did get really good growth
from the Reagan
years.
You saw GDP grow at very high
rates as we
came out of the recession,
something that
didn't happen at the end of the
recession
in 2007-2008.
President Obama chose to deal
with his recession
by increasing regulations and
getting government
more involved in the economy.
President Reagan decided to do
the exact opposite.
President Reagan got a
tremendous result in
terms of economic growth.
President Obama gave us eight
years without
3 percent growth.
So, I do think history shows us,
if we do
the tax reform right, that we
can put people
back to work and grow the
economy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, I want to
move on to
the budget.
MICK MULVANEY: Sure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You finish up the
fiscal year
later on.
Right now, we don't know if
there's an agreement
on a spending -- on a spending
plan for the
rest of this year.
Where does that stand right now?
MICK MULVANEY: That is a really,
really good
question, and I don't know
either, which bothers
me a little bit, because I'm the
budget director.
But we had thought we had a deal
on Monday.
The Democrats had objected to
our inclusion
of the bricks-and-mortar portion
of the border
wall.
They said that that was a poison
pill.
And to sort of drive home their
point, they
said, well, now we want these
cost-sharing
payments, cost -- the CSR
payments, cost-sharing
reduction payments to the
insurance industry
as part of the Obamacare.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
MICK MULVANEY: And they said --
they put that
on after they found out our
request for the
wall.
Well, we took the wall request
away on Monday.
And we're still waiting for the
Democrats
to let us know where they stand.
So, we thought we had a deal on
Monday, almost
48 hours ago now, and we have no
idea where
the Democrats are.
We don't know if they're doing
internal polling
that maybe says they're going to
benefit from
a shutdown.
We're really -- we're not
concerned yet, but
I'm a little surprised that we
haven't buttoned
this up.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is the
administration, are
you, the president, prepared to
go ahead with
a spending arrangement that
doesn't include
these payments to -- subsidy
payments to insurance
companies that help low-income
Americans?
MICK MULVANEY: Well, that's the
whole idea,
is that the bipartisan bill that
is being
-- that I think has been
negotiated now for
three months, two months, on the
Hill never
included those payments until
about two weeks
ago.
So, we just assumed when we gave
up on our
immediate demands for the
bricks-and-mortar
wall that the Democrats would do
the same
thing.
And for some reason, they're not
being straightforward
yet about what they want to do
on those payments.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The White House,
you mentioned
the wall, the fact that the
president initially
said this was something he felt
very strongly
about.
It had to be -- there had to be
money in there
to pay for a bricks-and-mortar
wall.
What signal that does it send,
though, that
he -- that was a centerpiece of
his campaign.
MICK MULVANEY: Yes.
The day after we sign the bill
that keeps
the government open for the last
five months
of the fiscal year -- our fiscal
year ends
the end of September -- the
discussions begin
immediately for the larger
budget for the
full 2018 fiscal year.
In fact, that's the budget we
happen to be
working on today as well.
We're doing '17 and '18 at the
same time.
Those conversations will have
actually already
started in terms of what wall
funding will
be in 2018.
So, I don't think it's fair to
say he's dropped
anything.
We simply said, look, this is
the last five
months of the fiscal year.
There's very little we can get
built in five
months anyway, so let's focus
instead on things
we agree on.
The Democrats say they support
border security.
In 2006, for example,
then-Senator Obama voted
for a lot of the stuff we're
asking for right
now.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, it's not a
lessening of
his -- that this is a priority
for him?
MICK MULVANEY: It's simply a
recognition of
the fact that we only have five
months left
in the year anyway.
That's the only discussion we're
having right
now, and that there are other
things we can
agree on.
So, let's agree on them.
Let's fund the government and
let's start
talking about 2018.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Final question.
We're coming up on the 100-day
mark.
MICK MULVANEY: I'm familiar with
it.
Yes, I have heard a little bit
about it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: For President
Trump.
As you know, there are critics,
even friends
of the administration out there,
who are saying,
this has been a rocky beginning
for this administration,
that you haven't been able to
get as much
done as you wanted.
Pulling back -- Obamacare hasn't
been repealed
and replaced, the border wall
that we have
just been discussing.
How do you see these first 100
days?
MICK MULVANEY: A lot of the
stuff that was
entirely in our control, I think
we have actually
exceed our own expectations.
You can talk about the number of
bills that
the president has signed.
I think there's been at least
13, more than
any president since World War
II, the number
of executives orders that we
have issued.
Again, it's not just number of
these things,
but what they have done.
By passing this legislation, we
have undone
a lot of the regulatory regime
that the previous
administration put in.
We have undone a lot of damage
they did with
our executive orders.
So, we have actually been able
to reduce role
of government in your life a
great deal in
the first 100 days.
We take that as a huge success.
I think President Trump is the
first president
since the 1880s to have a
Supreme Court justice
in the first 100 days.
Yes, we have not gotten health
care done.
Yes, we're just starting tax
reform today.
But keep in mind those are
things we had to
work with Congress, and Congress
turned out
to be a lot more broken than we
thought it
was.
In fact, one of the reasons we
think the Democrats
have not responded on our
funding proposals
for this year is that they don't
want to give
it to us within the first 100
days.
So, that's how poisonous the
atmosphere is
that we're working in, that they
sort of agreed
in principle.
They want to say yes, but they
won't say yes
until after the 100 days to deny
that to the
president.
That's just absurd.
And the folks back home pay the
price for
that, which is unfortunate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Budget Director
Mick Mulvaney,
thank you very much.
MICK MULVANEY: Thanks, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now a very
different view of
the president's tax plans.
William Brangham takes it from
here.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In addition to
cutting the
corporate rate and reducing the
number of
tax brackets, the president's
blueprint calls
for eliminating the Alternative
Minimum Tax,
or AMT, as well as the estate
tax.
It would also eliminate any
taxes on the first
$24,000 of a couple's earnings.
And it would cut all itemized
deductions,
except for two big ones,
mortgage interest
and charitable giving.
I'm joined now by Jared
Bernstein.
He's an economist who served in
the Obama
administration.
He's now a fellow at the Center
on Budget
and Policy Priorities.
Welcome.
JARED BERNSTEIN, Former Chief
Economist to
Vice President Joe Biden: Thank
you.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: First reaction
to the president's
tax proposal?
JARED BERNSTEIN: There are a lot
of problems
with this proposal.
I can think of three or four
right off the
top of my head, first of all on
the revenues.
This is a tax plan, even though
we don't know
all the details yet, what we do
know suggests
very clearly that this is going
to lead to
a loss of north of at least $3
trillion to
the treasury, and it could be as
much as $6
trillion.
That's over 10 years.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So,
potentially big deficit
hits.
JARED BERNSTEIN: Big deficit.
Big deficit debt hits.
And there are argument that the
growth effects
of these tax cuts will offset
those revenue
losses, those arguments are
completely unfounded.
There's just not a shred of
evidence, not
a shred, that tax cuts pay for
themselves
in the totality, which is what
they're suggesting.
That's not to say that tax cuts
can't have
some growth effects, but they
tend to be really
quite small.
So, that's the first point.
The growth point was number two.
The third point -- and I really
think Director
Mulvaney got this pretty
backwards -- was,
this tax cut plan exacerbates
after-tax inequality.
That means most its benefits
accrue to those
at the very top of the scale.
We can go through some of the
details, some
of the pieces that you announced
that generate
that effect, but it mostly has
to do with
this very sharp cut in the
corporate rate
and this pass-through rate that
you heard
him talk about.
And, finally -- and this relates
to this pass-through
problem -- this tax plan oppose
up a huge
loophole.
Every high-end earner has an
incentive now
to become an independent
business, an S Corp,
an LLC, to take advantage of a
pass-through
rate is now going to be 15, 20
percentage
points below what they would
otherwise pay.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Secretary
Mnuchin in his
briefing today -- and you heard
Mick Mulvaney
make the same argument -- they
argue that
these taxes are geared largely
to middle-income
earn earners.
You don't see any evidence that
there's targeted
tax breaks for them in this?
JARED BERNSTEIN: Just a
slightest bit, which
is this increase in the standard
deduction.
So, that's going to help some
folks at the
bottom.
But that's tiny.
The vast majority of the revenue
losses that
I was describing, the trillions
that are not
going to be flowing to the
treasury if this
tax cut ever becomes law, very
much swamp
anything to the middle class.
Let me give you an example.
This sounds to me very similar
to a House
plan that was written by Paul
Ryan quite recently.
And with that plan, the top 1
percent, their
after-tax income went up 11
percent.
That's about $240,000.
OK?
The middle class, their income
went up 0.1
percent, which we can just call
zero.
That's 60 bucks.
So that's the kind of imbalance
we're looking
at here.
And that's what I mean when I
say this really
exacerbates a problem we already
have, which
is one of high levels of
inequality.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: You heard Judy
and Mick
Mulvaney talk about these
pass-through companies
and the huge tax cut that
they're going to
be getting.
Can you explain what those
companies are and
what that tax cut would mean?
JARED BERNSTEIN: These are the
small businesses,
but they're not the moms and
pops.
That was another misleading part
of that.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Well, they
argue that this
is -- that that is largely a tax
cut for small
business.
JARED BERNSTEIN: So, that's --
well, it is
a tax cut for some small
business, but which
small businesses are we talking
about?
The moms and pops, you think
about the corner
store, they're already paying a
low rate on
their pass-through income,
something close
to the 15 percent that we're
talking about.
The ones who get the huge break
here are high-end
small businesses, you know, law
firms and
private equity funds and hedge
funds.
And, again, the point here is
that, if you're
being paid a high salary, you
now -- which
you have to pay on your personal
income side,
which, under their plan, would
be 35 percent,
you now have a very big, very
tempting incentive
to go to your boss and say,
starting tomorrow,
you're no longer paying me a
paycheck.
I'm Jared Bernstein LLC, and I'm
going to
tap that 30 -- that 15 percent
loophole.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: You're a
veteran of a lot
of tax battles in the Congress
and the Senate
and the administration.
Isn't this just the opening
salvo of the Trump
administration?
This is their beginning of their
negotiating
position?
JARED BERNSTEIN: It is an
opening salvo.
I think that's an important
point and we shouldn't
forget that.
The problem is that the -- this
opening salvo
goes completely in the wrong
direction.
We are a society, an economy, a
government
that is going to need more
revenues in the
future, not less.
Think about demographics alone.
The share of elderly people in
our country
is going to go from 15 to about
21 percent
over the next couple of decades.
Now, that's baked in the cake.
That's going to happen.
That creates certain budgetary
pressures.
So, the idea that we're even
starting with
an opening salvo that's going to
keep, you
know, $3 trillion, $4 trillion,
$5 trillion
over 10 years of going into the
coffers at
the treasury is starting from
precisely the
wrong place.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Jared
Bernstein, thanks
very much for your analysis.
JARED BERNSTEIN: My pleasure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
hell on earth,
a new striking documentary on
Syria and its
civil war; walled-off, the
proposed U.S.-Mexico
border wall putting endangered
species at
risk; and remembering Jonathan
Demme, the
director who brought us "Silence
of the Lambs."
But first: As President Trump
nears his 100th
day in office, White House
correspondent John
Yang begins our look at his
accomplishments
and setbacks, with a focus on
the home front.
JOHN YANG: For President Trump,
today's tax
announcement amounted to a
campaign promise
kept.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
It's a great plan.
We're going to put people back
to work.
JOHN YANG: It comes as he nears
his 100th
day in office.
President Trump dismisses that
milestone as
not very meaningful and a
ridiculous standard,
even as administration officials
aggressively
push his accomplishments online
and on-camera.
SEAN SPICER, White House Press
Secretary:
When you think about what he's
started, it's
been a huge, hugely successful
first 100 days.
JOHN YANG: Mr. Trump came to the
White House
intent on shaking things up,
changing how
Washington works.
He and his advisers have focused
on asserting
executive action.
He is on track to sign the most
executive
orders in his first 100 days
since World War
II.
But like other presidents bent
on changing
Washington, he's run into
obstacles in Congress
and in the courts.
There have been clear victories.
Administration officials tout
the confirmation
of Supreme Court Justice Neil
Gorsuch, though
Republicans had to change Senate
rules to
do it.
DONALD TRUMP: And I got it done
in the first
100 days.
That's even nice.
JOHN YANG: And he moved quickly
to revive
construction of the Keystone
pipeline with
executive action.
The courts have stymied other
executive actions,
like his immigrant travel ban,
and, just yesterday,
his effort to strip federal
funding from so-called
sanctuary cities.
While stinging from those court
actions, administration
officials say the president's
tough talk has
led to a sharp drop in illegal
crossings over
the southern border since
January, reversing
a nearly 20-year trend.
Mr. Trump has also reversed
himself on some
campaign promises, such as not
declaring China
a currency manipulator, as he
had pledged
to do in campaign rallies across
America.
DONALD TRUMP: What should have
done years
ago.
JOHN YANG: And now the White
House is working
to turn around the most
embarrassing setback
of his first 100 days, the
initial failure
to repeal and replace the
Affordable Care
Act, or Obamacare, a signature
pledge of his
campaign.
DONALD TRUMP: We were very
close.
It was a very, very tight
margin.
JOHN YANG: That episode shook
some administration
officials' confidence in House
Speaker Paul
Ryan's ability to deliver votes.
REP.
PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker of the
House: We
came really close today, but we
came up short.
JOHN YANG: On tax reform and on
other major
legislative initiatives in the
near future,
such as the promised
infrastructure rebuilding,
there are indications the White
House intends
to chart its own course as they
search for
the victories the president
wants to turn
his vision of making America
great again into
a reality.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang at the
White House.
JUDY WOODRUFF: For more on
President Trump's
first 100 days, and how he
compares to his
predecessors, I am joined by
Barbara Perry,
director of presidential studies
at the University
of Virginia's Miller Center, and
presidential
historian and "NewsHour" regular
Michael Beschloss.
And we welcome both of you to
the program.
Michael, I'm going to start with
you.
First, remind us quickly, where
did this 100-day
standard come from?
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS, Presidential
Historian:
It came from Franklin Roosevelt.
He had 100 days that started a
couple days
after -- a few days after he was
inaugurated.
And he was trying to deal with
the Great Depression
and had this amazing success
with Congress,
getting all this legislation,
fixing the banks,
trying to relieve the poor,
Tennessee Valley
Authority, Public Works, a kind
of legislative
record that we probably will not
see again.
And every president since then
has hated it,
because they're measured against
this almost-unreal
standard.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Barbara
Perry, here we
are, almost 100 days in for
President Trump.
How does he compare to his
predecessors at
this point?
BARBARA PERRY, Director,
University of Virginia
Miller Center: Depends on what
you want to
compare him on.
So, if you want to look at,
let's say, executive
orders, certainly, in terms of
the numbers,
he would be right up there in
the categories
of most presidents.
But, as Michael said, in
reference to legislation,
I think FDR passed 76 laws in
the first 100
days through a very amenable
Congress.
Obviously, Trump is not going to
come anywhere
near that record, and probably
no other president
will either.
But I would say, certainly on
executive orders,
on the Supreme Court appointment
of Neil Gorsuch,
he gets A's in terms of getting
what he wanted
based on some of the promises
that he made
during the campaign.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael, how do
you see him
compared to others?
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: I think I
would say it
a little differently, because
Trump made such
a point before the campaign just
before the
election, saying, elect me.
This is a referendum on my
100-day action
plan.
I will get all these things
through Congress
with a Republican Congress,
which he has had.
And, in retrospect, as you do
say, this has
been 100 days with almost
nothing of great
importance, despite the fact
that he had promised
health care reform and big tax
reform, which
he's getting to this week and a
number of
other things, border wall.
So, if you're looking at the 100
days largely
as a legislative standard -- and
that is what
is usually is in history --
Trump is really
pretty low down on the list.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Barbara,
Michael referenced
where this 100-day standard
comes from, but
how often do presidents get a
lot done early
on in their administration?
BARBARA PERRY: It depends on the
president,
of course.
If you look at someone like
Lyndon Johnson,
who had, of course, two first
days -- first
100 days, one after the Kennedy
assassination,
and then being elected in his
own right, but
particularly after the 1964
election, in 1965,
as he moved forward with the
Great Society,
Medicare and Medicaid, and the
Voting Rights
Act of 1965, so we will point to
a president
like that.
Again, no one will ever again
standard of
FDR in legislation.
I also look out where they come
out in the
first 100 days on approval
ratings, which
is a fascinating parlor game to
play.
We know this president coming
in, of course,
came in with the lowest entering
approval
rating of any president.
But it also doesn't matter
necessarily if
you make a mistake, because the
person with
the highest rating after 100
days is John
F. Kennedy, after the Bay of
Pigs.
But the way he handled that
issue by going
before the American people and
saying, I'm
responsible for this, I'm the
responsible
officer of the government,
caused his approval
ratings to spike even further.
So he comes in with an 83
percent rating.
We know Trump's approval ratings
is down in
the low 40s at this point.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Dig a little
deeper there,
Michael, in terms of how Donald
Trump has
done compared to other
presidents.
You started to talk about this a
moment ago
with the setting of the
standard.
But how does he stack up?
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: Well, you
know, a lot of
this, you know, what presidents
do, above
and beyond their congressional
record, is,
do they expand the base that
they had on Election
Day?
Donald Trump, you know, got,
what, 47 percent
of the popular vote.
Now he is down to about 40,
which would suggest
that, if anything, he's
alienated some of
the people who voted for him.
Usually, with presidents you see
-- and this
is true of almost every
president back to
FDR -- the opposite.
They get elected, they say, I
need people
who didn't vote for me, who are
skeptical
of me.
I'm going to reach out to them.
I'm the president of all the
people.
And you see the numbers go up
because people
appreciate the fact that they
are reaching
out.
That is the one thing Donald
Trump -- and
this has been his own choice --
has not done.
He's essentially said, I'm happy
with my base.
I will play to them.
I am not going to make a big
effort to reach
out to Democrats and
independents in Congress
or out among the American
people.
And I think the numbers show
that he's paid
for that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: One other feature
of this presidency
has been his unusual attacks, if
you will,
Barbara, on the judiciary.
Time and again, he has singled
out the courts,
judges, justices when he didn't
like what
they ruled.
BARBARA PERRY: He has, which is
a little odd,
in the sense that his sister is
a federal
judge, and a circuit judge at
that.
But he is following in the
footsteps of some
other presidents, and we can
point directly
to FDR, for example, who took on
the judiciary
headlong, not necessarily even
in the first
term, but certainly once he was
reelected
by a landslide in '36, and
famously, or infamously,
tried to pack the court.
But I always go back to a speech
that he gave
in which he said, the two
branches of government,
president and Congress, are
pulling a wagon.
There are two horses pulling in
the same direction,
and the court, particularly the
Supreme Court,
which kept striking down his
many pieces of
New Deal legislation, is pulling
in the opposite
direction.
That was a metaphor that the
American people
could understand.
But they never supported in the
main or for
the majority his court-packing
plan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, it's not so
unusual, Michael.
But it is -- there has been a
frequency we
haven't seen.
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: I think
that's right.
And Reagan talked about
unelected judges.
But in Trump's case, you have
had -- and this
is historically unusual -- two
big executive
orders within these first 100
days, including
most recently sanctuary cities,
and earlier
on the travel ban.
Each time, he would say, almost
in anger,
this was something that an
unelected judge
did, or something that a
so-called judge did.
And it's sort of the opposite of
conservatism,
because one of the things that
is most fundamental
in being a conservative is
having respect
for the democratic institutions
that we think
are important.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let's talk,
finally, Barbara,
about what the first 100 days
tells us about
the rest of a presidency.
To what extent can we look at
Donald Trump's
first few months in office and
say this forecasts
whether he's going to be
successful or not?
BARBARA PERRY: Well, I'm from
Louisville,
Kentucky, originally, and we're
about to do
the Kentucky Derby, so I say a
horse can stumble
out of the gate or it can be
running last
in the first third...
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: Absolutely.
BARBARA PERRY: ... and still
come on to win.
So, to the point about low
approval ratings
and Michael's point about not
necessarily
accomplishing all of the list of
things he
said he would do in the 100 days
doesn't mean
that he won't be reelected or
that he will
have a failed presidency.
And if you think of someone like
Bill Clinton,
who had a rather chaotic start
in a host of
ways in those first 100 days,
and even up
to the Oklahoma City bombing in
1995, and
people were saying, oh, it's the
shrinking
presidency and the shrinking
Bill Clinton
as president, and yet he came on
strong.
And we know that he was
reelected in '96.
So, it's not a Ouija board.
And, as a professor, I would say
to the students
in the first third of the
semester, if they
scored lower than they wanted on
the first
test, I would say, you have more
tests to
do, you have a term paper,
participate in
class.
So, Trump still has many more
things on which
to be graded.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you see
this first...
(CROSSTALK)
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: I totally
agree with that.
And that is that it's a standard
that historically
doesn't tell us a lot, because
think of all
these presidents and what turns
out to be
important about their
administration, these
moments like Kennedy and the
missile crisis,
or Johnson and the Vietnam
escalation, or
George W. Bush and 9/11.
None of those things happened in
the first
-- during the first 100 days.
So, if we were having a great
conversation
like this 100 days into each of
those presidencies,
we wouldn't have been able to
predict what
historians now think was really
turning out
to be pivotal.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael
Beschloss, Barbara
Perry, thank you both.
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: Thank you,
Judy.
BARBARA PERRY: Thank you, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, tomorrow, we
will take
a look at the Trump
administration's successes
and setbacks overseas within its
first 100
days.
and setbacks overseas within its
first 100
days.
Now a look at a new film about
the brutal
Syrian civil war.
Hari Sreenivasan has that story.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The French
government said
today its analysis of samples
from a chemical
attack in Syria earlier this
month prove that
the government of Bashar
al-Assad was responsible.
That attack was one more flash
point in a
war that has now entered its
seventh year,
and it is the subject of a
searing new documentary
called "Hell on Earth: The Fall
of Syria and
the Rise of ISIS."
It debuts at the Tribeca Film
Festival this
week here in New York, and will
air later
this summer on National
Geographic.
It is co-directed by the
journalist and author
Sebastian Junger, who also
narrates the film.
Thanks for joining us.
SEBASTIAN JUNGER, Director,
"Hell on Earth:
The Fall of Syria and the Rise
of ISIS": Thank
you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Why make this
right now?
SEBASTIAN JUNGER: We started
about two years
ago.
We wanted to explain why the
Syrian civil
war happened, how it evolved,
and particularly
why ISIS came out of it.
ISIS is a kind of rare
phenomenon.
And we wanted to explain that to
the American
people.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But there's a
family that
you intersperse throughout this
documentary.
They are making their way out of
Syria, or
attempting to as they go along.
And there's a real telling clip
early on in
the film where there's a father
just trying
to comfort his kids.
Take a look.
MAN (through translator): Don't
be afraid,
dear.
Don't be afraid.
(CRYING)
MAN (through translator):
Honestly, I'm about
to explode.
I can't express what is
happening inside of
me.
I have to smile against my will,
so the kids
don't get scared.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, this is
juxtaposed with
a phrase that you have from
Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad saying, we don't
indiscriminately
bomb anyone.
And here we have a family who
clearly could
be the target of this.
SEBASTIAN JUNGER: Yes.
I mean, that clip shows a
nighttime bombing
by the Syrian government, by the
Syrian air
force.
Assad is just lying.
Plenty of politicians do, and
he's one of
them.
HARI SREENIVASAN: One of the
interesting things,
there's also a little map that
you have throughout
this film about how massive this
tiny country,
this tiny war has gotten,
meaning how many
other global partners or parties
are involved
in this.
It's not just the reason.
I mean, you have proxies in
Russia and the
United States involved, but you
also have
so many countries around it that
are involved
now.
SEBASTIAN JUNGER: Yes.
I mean, wars a little like
tumors.
You know, they sort of like
drawn draw in
more and more blood supply, and
they grow.
And so there's arms going in.
There's oil coming out.
There's antiquities coming out.
There's people coming out.
And there's jihadis going in.
And it's the whole ecosystem.
And even on the sort of
diplomatic level,
on the sort of national level,
there are a
good dozen countries that are
directly involved
in the mechanics of that war,
and some very,
very powerful players in the
world.
So, it's like a bar fight that,
you know,
the longer it goes on, the more
people are
involved, until everyone is
fighting, and
one of the rationales for
stepping in early
and trying to stop these civil
wars before
they get this kind of critical
mass.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Speaking of
stepping in
early or later, one of the
things that you
point out is that there's a
legacy that goes
all the way back, perhaps, to
the de-Baathification
in Iraq and how that contributed
to what is
happening in Syria.
And also you take a fairly
pointed look at
President Obama and the red line
and the United
States' inability to do anything
after that
red line was crossed.
SEBASTIAN JUNGER: Oh, there are
huge missteps
by the United States, the
invasion of Iraq
arguably being one of them.
After we invaded Iraq, the
de-Baathification
put on the street tens of
thousands of Baath
Party members who weren't
necessarily loyalists,
but they were sort of expelled
from government,
expelled from the military,
expelled from
their jobs.
And then we helped install a
Shia government
in Baghdad that really starting
preying on
these people, killing them.
And so of course those people
saw ISIS as
-- ISIS presented themselves as
their protectors.
And so, you know, of course,
that -- you know,
that worked quite well for ISIS.
And had that not happened --
and, you know,
this analysis comes from
American generals.
This isn't some sort of far-out
left-wing
analysis.
These are American generals
looking back at
the war in Iraq and thinking, my
God, was
that a mistake.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And the ripple
effects now
it has even going all the way up
into Europe
and even political repercussions
of the migrant
influx into Europe.
SEBASTIAN JUNGER: Yes.
In the modern world, and maybe
even the ancient
world, you really can't say that
someone else's
problems aren't your problems.
They will eventually reach you.
My first war was Bosnia.
It was a war that a lot of
people sort of
ignored, but it started just
pumping millions
of refugees out of Eastern
Europe into neighboring
countries, and along with that
came a lot
of problems, including organized
crime into
allied countries, countries that
we're allied
with.
So, eventually, President
Clinton stepped
in and put a stop to it.
But there are real consequences.
And in Syria, it's a sort of
cauldron of an
awful lot of things that will
affect us, refugees,
terrorism, and a huge nexus of
sort of illegal
activity, arms sales, drugs,
antiquities.
And wars are not something you
want happening
in the world, and they will
affect everybody,
including people in the United
States.
I think people don't quite
understand that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Sebastian
Junger, thanks
for joining us.
SEBASTIAN JUNGER: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Trump
has long said
he wants to build a hardened
wall across the
U.S.-Mexico border to reduce the
flow of drugs
and illegal immigration.
But what would a continuous wall
from California
to Texas mean for wildlife in
the area?
William Brangham is back again
with a report
from Arizona.
It is part of our weekly series
examining
the leading edge of science.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Tens of
thousands of migrants
risk their lives each year
crossing this dangerous,
remote desert between the U.S.
and Mexico.
Some have found creative ways to
get over
or around the steel fences built
to keep them
out.
But many of the wild plants and
animals here
in the Sonoran Desert can't do
that.
These miles of fencing divide
their natural
habitat and threaten their
survival.
At least 50 species near the
border are already
endangered, like the Sonoran
pronghorn, the
gray wolf and the ocelot.
SERGIO AVILA-VILLEGAS,
Arizona-Sonora Desert
Museum: Nature has no borders.
Nature knows no political
boundaries.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Sergio
Avila-Villegas is
a wildlife biologist with the
Arizona-Sonora
Desert Museum in Tucson.
He's spent the last 16 years
studying this
area.
He took us to the Coronado
National Memorial
in the Huachuca Mountains on the
Arizona-Mexico
border.
He says the border fence -- you
can see it
there in the distance -- means
animals have
to range farther afield to find
food, water
and mates.
There's this one, what seems to
my eye a very
thin fence that runs across the
border, but
you're saying this really does
have a major
impact on the species that live
here?
SERGIO AVILA-VILLEGAS: From a
sparrow perspective,
from a grasshopper perspective,
and from even
plant perspective, this is a
very difficult
thing to overcome, and this
blocks reproduction
of plants and animals.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In one study
from 2011,
biologists found border fences
increased the
risk of population decline and
extinction,
especially for endangered
species.
Another study from the same year
found border
security infrastructure could
interfere with
black bear breeding.
Before the border fence between
the U.S. and
Mexico went up about 10 years
ago, conservationists
tried to stop it, but ultimately
lost that
fight.
Eighty percent of Arizona's
border with Mexico
has some kind of barrier.
Gaps do occasionally exist where
wildlife
can pass, but finding those
places isn't easy.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
I would build a great wall.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Now that
President Trump
plans to build what may be a
continuous wall
from California to Texas,
Avila-Villegas and
other scientists worry this will
only accelerate
the extinction of some animals.
SERGIO AVILA-VILLEGAS:
Long-term, this could
be a division of genetical
populations, where
a group of animals from one side
cannot reproduce
with another group of animals,
breaking the
connectivity, creating some
genetical problems.
The survival of the species is
at risk.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Species like
this jaguar,
which was spotted several times
in Arizona
over the last few years.
Historically, these jaguars
roamed from the
Southwest United States down
through the Amazon
Basin, all the way to Argentina.
Scientists estimate this big cat
now occupies
less than half of its original
range because
of habitat loss and poaching.
There may be fewer than 50,000
breeding adults
left.
SERGIO AVILA-VILLEGAS: If
there's an impermeable
barrier, we are losing the
opportunity to
have the third largest cat in
the world to
recover its populations in the
United States.
Jaguars deserve an opportunity
to live in
this place too.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The Coronado
National Memorial
is considered a critical habitat
zone, meaning
it would normally be protected
by the Endangered
Species Act.
But Congress wanted the fence
built quickly.
In 2005, it allowed the
Department of Homeland
Security to bypass all
environmental laws
during construction, including
the requirement
to study what this fence would
do to wildlife.
Congressman Rob Bishop,
Republican from Utah,
thinks those exemptions aren't
enough.
He's introduced legislation that
would extend
those legal waivers to Border
Patrol agents,
who do have to obey
environmental laws.
REP.
ROB BISHOP (R), Utah: So,
everything from
California to Texas is almost
all federal
property, and over half of that
is in a wilderness
designation, which has specific
requirements
for what can and cannot be done.
That's where the Border Patrol
is prohibited
from doing their job, and that's
the mistake,
because that becomes the avenue
for most of
the illegal entrants into this
country.
And I think it has a direct
correlation to
the amount of federal land and
the amount
of restrictions the Border
Patrol has on how
they can do their jobs on that
corridor.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Border Patrol
can't build
bases, towers, or roads without
permission
from other federal agencies,
like the Fish
and Wildlife Service.
They're also not allowed to
drive over protected
lands, a rule smugglers don't
have to follow.
CYNDI TUELL, Environmental
Attorney: We have
one of the largest wilderness
areas in a national
wildlife refuge in Southern
Arizona, and Border
Patrol has been driving over it
for close
to a decade.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Cyndi Tuell is
an environmental
lawyer and border lands
conservation advocate
who says she's seen Border
Patrol in places
they're not supposed to be.
CYNDI TUELL: The main focus of
my work as
a conservation attorney is to
try to get Border
Patrol, Department of Homeland
Security to
follow the law.
If they're one of the largest
law enforcement
agencies in the country, they
very much need
to be complying with the law
themselves.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: She spends
part of her time
travelling the backcountry,
looking for signs
of Border Patrol's impact on
public lands.
She says their vehicles can
crush vegetation
and erode soil, and that habitat
is destroyed
when they build bases and
surveillance towers.
CYNDI TUELL: Every time I'm out
here, though,
I interact with a Border Patrol
agent, or
I see the signs of
militarization.
I see tanks.
I see heavily armed men.
I see vehicle tracks two or
three miles into
a wilderness area that I know
shouldn't be
there.
GIL KERLIKOWSKE, Former
Commissioner, U.S.
Customs and Border Protection:
Customs and
Border Protection has to be able
to be on
the borders, whether it's in
environmentally
sensitive land or not.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Gil
Kerlikowske served as
the commissioner for customs and
border protection
from 2014 until the new
administration took
over.
He's now a fellow at Harvard
University.
GIL KERLIKOWSKE: I think it's
very difficult
for those agents and their
vehicles and other
types of equipment to be in an
area and not
to leave some type of footprint.
But I would mention that, as
often as hard
as they work to try and reduce
their environmental
impact, I think there's always
going to be,
as a result of that human
intervention, some
type of an effect on the
environment.
SERGIO AVILA-VILLEGAS: The
infrastructure
seems to be a
one-solution-fits-all for many
different problems, and I don't
think it's
addressing the root causes.
And I really think that the
environment is
paying the ultimate price for
this.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Have you and
the conservation
community made those concerns
known to the
Border Patrol and the Customs
and Border Protection?
SERGIO AVILA-VILLEGAS: A lot of
our concerns
have been voiced through the
conservation
and science community to the
Department of
Homeland Security.
They don't go anywhere.
The Border Patrol and the
Department of Homeland
Security have no mandate to
listen to these
concerns.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: We asked the
Department
of Homeland Security if they
have required
any passageways for wildlife in
the solicitations
they have put out to contractors
who want
to build the new wall.
They have told us that the
current plans -- quote
-- "will not result in
significant environmental
impacts.
As a result, for this particular
project,
DHS is not planning for
mitigation."
President Trump ordered 5,000
more agents
be hired and deployed along the
border, and
plans for his wall are now being
drafted.
The few wildlife corridors that
do remain
could soon be closed for good.
From the Sonoran Desert in
Arizona, I'm William
Brangham for the "PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: And finally
tonight, Hari Sreenivasan
is back with an appreciation of
an Oscar-winning
director.
ANTHONY HOPKINS, Actor: Quid pro
quo.
I tell you things, you tell me
things, not
about this case, though, about
yourself.
HARI SREENIVASAN: After years
making B-movies,
Jonathan Demme's first major
commercial success
was 1991's "Silence of the
Lambs," and, for
many, would remain his
best-known film.
The dark thriller, based on a
book, followed
Jodie Foster as an FBI field
agent on the
hunt for a serial killer, using
the counsel
of a psychopath named Hannibal
Lecter, played
by Anthony Hopkins.
ANTHONY HOPKINS: What is your
worst memory
of childhood?
JODIE FOSTER, Actress: The death
of my father.
ANTHONY HOPKINS: Tell me about
it, and don't
lie, or I will know.
JODIE FOSTER: He was a town
marshal, and one
night, he surprised two burglars
coming out
of the back of a drugstore.
They shot him.
HARI SREENIVASAN: It earned
Demme the Academy
Award for best director.
KEVIN COSTNER, Actor: To
Jonathan Demme for
"Silence of the Lambs."
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
HARI SREENIVASAN: And it remains
the only
horror film to ever win for best
picture.
JONATHAN DEMME, Director: Hi,
mom.
And thanks for transferring your
love of movies
to me.
And thanks, dad, for making me
think I could
actually be part of this
industry.
And thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Mike Sargent
is a film critic
for Pacifica Radio.
MIKE SARGENT, Film Critic,
Pacifica Radio:
At the time, a thriller and
horror were kind
of seen to be the same thing.
And a movie about a serial
killer is not the
kind of movie that really gets
acclaim.
So, he took something that
could've been considered
pulpy, and really turned it into
high art.
He really elevated the form.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But Demme did
more than
crime thrillers.
Over his career, he made indie
films, dramas,
documentaries, comedies and
concert movies,
too, including 1984's "Stop
Making Sense,"
a stylized look at the band the
Talking Heads.
DENZEL WASHINGTON, Actor: So,
you were concealing
your illness.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In 1993, Demme
directed
"Philadelphia," one of the first
major Hollywood
films to confront the HIV/AIDS
crisis.
It starred Denzel Washington and
Tom Hanks,
who won an Oscar for his
portrayal of a gay
lawyer infected with HIV.
DENZEL WASHINGTON: Didn't you
have an obligation
to tell your employer you had
this dreaded,
deadly, infectious disease?
TOM HANKS, Actor: That's not the
point.
From the day they hired me to
the day I was
fired, I served my clients
consistently, thoroughly,
with absolute excellence.
If they hadn't fired me, that's
what I would
be doing today.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Five years
later, Demme
directed the adaptation of Toni
Morrison's
novel "Beloved," starring Oprah
Winfrey.
OPRAH WINFREY, Actress: Could
stay the night,
if you had a mind to.
DANNY GLOVER, Actor: You don't
sound too steady
in the offer.
OPRAH WINFREY: Oh, it's truly
meant.
It's just I hope you will pardon
my house.
DANNY GLOVER: "My house."
I like the sound of that.
MIKE SARGENT: He was definitely
someone who
I think was sensitive to issues
of race and
sexuality and things like that.
TOM HANKS: What I loved the most
about the
law?
DENZEL WASHINGTON: Yes.
TOM HANKS: Is that every now and
again, not
often, but occasionally, you get
to be a part
of justice being done.
MIKE SARGENT: I think he stacks
up there in
the top 25 of great American
directors, I
would say, I would say, for the
kind of films
he did and the amount.
If you look at the body of work
he did, and
what he produced, and the people
whose careers
he really helped, I think he was
more than
significant.
I think he will be looked back
on even greater
than he was when he was here.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Demme
continued to work
up until his death this morning.
He passed away from esophageal
cancer at his
home in New York.
He was 73 years old.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And he made a
string of remarkable
movies.
On the "NewsHour" online right
now: An ancient
animal skeleton of a mastodon
found near San
Diego may rewrite the entire
history of the
Americas, suggesting humans
arrived in the
area more than 100,000 years
before previously
thought.
We examine the evidence.
That's on our Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
On Thursday, our Making Sense
team looks at
the effect that rising
prescription drug prices
has on the overall cost of
health care.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and we will see you soon.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and we will see you soon.